README.md, before:

[![Build Status on Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/katahiromz/RisohEditor.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/katahiromz/RisohEditor)
[![Build status on AppVeyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/4sdaed4vyakby61h?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/katahiromz/risoheditor)

# ![](re-icon.png "") RisohEditor by katahiromz

RisohEditor is a free resource editor for Win32 development, created by Katayama Hirofumi MZ.

It can read/write resource data in RC/RES/EXE/DLL files. UTF-16 resource files are also supported.

- Webpage (English): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/en
- Webpage (Chinese): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/ch
- Webpage (Japanese): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/ja
- Webpage (Italian): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/it
- Webpage (Russian): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/ru

## Supported Platforms

It works on Windows XP/2003/Vista/7/8.1/10 and ReactOS.

## License Agreement

See "LICENSE.txt" for details of copyrights and license agreement.

## NOTICE

Please avoid installing in "C:\Program Files" or "C:\Program Files (x86)". Because its resource compiler (windres) doesn't accept space character in the file path. 

## Standardization

See "Standardize.md" for standardization of resource IDs.

## FAQ

### Question 1. What is "Risoh"?

The word "risoh" means "ideal" in Japanese.

### Question 2. What are edt1, edt2, cmb1?

Those are standard control ID macros defined in <dlgs.h>.

### Question 3. Why can't I add a control data to my dialog item?

Make the dialog box extended.

### Question 4. What is mcdx?

It's a special message compiler I made. See mcdx/MESSAGETABLEDX.md for details.

### Question 5. Why did I get garbled characters when compiling with Visual Studio?

The resource compiler of MSVC has a bug in treatment of UTF-8 resource files.

Use UTF-16 (but UTF-16 is not supported in GNU windres).

## HISTORY

- v.0.6 (2017.08.31)
    - First release.
- v.5.0.8 (2018.09.12)
    - Improve tool bar icons.
    - Fix the file types on extraction.
    - Write dagger to source file to help UTF-8 detection.
    - Fix the treeview icons.
    - Split the RT_DIALOG and RT_MENU resource templates in languages.
- v.5.0.9 (2018.09.27)
    - Improve resource.h output.
    - Improve treeview file icon.
    - Improve importing.
- v.5.1.0 (2018.10.08)
    - Improve "String Entry" dialogs (multiline).
    - Fix Ctrl+A behaviour.
    - Check file lock on saving a file.
    - Make resource IDs case sensitive.
    - Support encoding of resource items.
    - Fix the abnormal termination at "Languages" dialog.
- v.5.1.1 (2018.11.08)
    - Accept space in the caption text box.
    - Accept space in the language text box.
- v.5.1.2 (2018.12.08)
    - Accept space in the window class name text box.
    - Accept C string literal in the window class name text box.
    - Improve template system.
    - Enable manifest template.
    - Fix toolbar UI update.
    - Correctly display ID types of "List of Resource IDs".
    - Correctly sort the languages upon output.
- v.5.1.3 (2019.01.01)
    - Fix "List of Resource IDs".
- v.5.1.4 (2019.01.13)
    - Add English installer.
    - Add Italian installer.
    - Add Italian translation.
    - Add some language installer.
- v.5.1.5 (2019.01.27)
    - Don't use WS_EX_MDICHILD extended style.
    - Support ReactOS.
- v.5.1.6 (2019.02.24)
    - Improve Italian translation.
    - GUI adjustment.
    - Fix "Clone In New Language".
- v.5.1.7 (2019.03.20)
    - Add PBS_MARQUEE and PBS_SMOOTHREVERSE styles.
    - Fix the process of compilation error.
- v.5.1.8 (2019.05.14)
    - Add check of recompilation upon cloning.
    - Fix the selection after cloning.
    - Correctly fail upon compilation error of string table and message table.
- v.5.1.9 (2019.07.14)
    - Supported UTF-16 source input/output.
- v.5.2.0 (2019.07.26)
    - Correctly treat `DIALOG STYLE` values (`WS_CAPTION` is default value of `DIALOG STYLE`).
    - Fixed a bug that the application unexpectedly deletes the file when it opened a compressed EXE file without expanding.
- v.5.2.1 (2019.08.04)
    - "English (United States)" will be selected if you entered `"En"` for language name.
    - Add "Query Constant" feature.
    - Fix "Collapse All".
    - `WS_POPUPWINDOW | WS_BORDER` must be `WS_POPUPWINDOW | WS_CAPTION`.
    - `RT_FONT` support.
    - Improved "Add Resource" dialog.
- v.5.2.2 (2019.08.14)
    - Update Italian translation.
    - Support XML, XSLT, SCHEMA and REGISTRY resource types.
    - Improved interpretation when language mismatch of `RT_ICON`/`RT_CURSOR` and `RT_GROUP_ICON`/`RT_GROUP_CURSOR`.
    - Improved interpretation when language mismatch of `RT_DLGINIT` and `RT_DIALOG`.
- v.5.2.3 (2019.09.14)
    - Fix `AUTORADIOBUTTON` `STYLE`.
- v.5.2.4 (2019.09.15)
    - XP support.
- v.5.2.5 (2019.09.19)
    - Fixed a `WS_CHILDWINDOW` bug in dialog style listbox.
    - Changed the release filename (`RisohEditor-X.X.X.exe` and `RisohEditor-X.X.X.zip`).
    - Added `TRANSLATORS.txt`.
    - Made owner-drawn controls visible.
- v.5.2.6 (2019.09.23)
    - Improve Languages dialog.
    - Add Russian translation.
    - Show error message if the installed location has space characters.
    - Add `--use-temp-file` option in invoking `windres` to fix the `popen` problem.
- v.5.2.7 (2019.10.20)
    - Improved Languages dialog again.
    - Fix the positions of the dialog item marks.
- v.5.2.8 (2020.01.30)
    - Fix Russian translation.
    - Able to display undefined controls.
    - Added "Use BEGIN/END" option.
    - Fixed a bug that DLL could not be saved as another name.
- v.5.2.9 (2020.02.01)
    - XP support of 5.2.8 is forgotten. Now enabled.
    - Fixed processing of file saving.
    - Able to save EXE/DLL files without user-owned executable.
    - Fixed how to backup.
- v.5.3.0 (2020.02.06)
    - Added `ES_AUTOHSCROLL` to some textboxes.
    - Fixed the logical error upon overwriting file.
- v.5.3.1 (2020.02.23)
    - Fix and improve menu resource reading/displaying.
    - Improved `IDC_STATIC` handling.
    - Improved "List of Resource IDs" window.
- v.5.3.2 (2020.XX.YY)

## Contact Us

katayama.hirofumi.mz@gmail.com

Commit message:

able to save with Ctrl+S without querying the location

README.md, after:

[![Build Status on Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/katahiromz/RisohEditor.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/katahiromz/RisohEditor)
[![Build status on AppVeyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/4sdaed4vyakby61h?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/katahiromz/risoheditor)

# ![](re-icon.png "") RisohEditor by katahiromz

RisohEditor is a free resource editor for Win32 development, created by Katayama Hirofumi MZ.

It can read/write resource data in RC/RES/EXE/DLL files. UTF-16 resource files are also supported.

- Webpage (English): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/en
- Webpage (Chinese): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/ch
- Webpage (Japanese): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/ja
- Webpage (Italian): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/it
- Webpage (Russian): https://katahiromz.web.fc2.com/re/ru

## Supported Platforms

It works on Windows XP/2003/Vista/7/8.1/10 and ReactOS.

## License Agreement

See "LICENSE.txt" for details of copyrights and license agreement.

## NOTICE

Please avoid installing in "C:\Program Files" or "C:\Program Files (x86)". Because its resource compiler (windres) doesn't accept space character in the file path. 

## Standardization

See "Standardize.md" for standardization of resource IDs.

## FAQ

### Question 1. What is "Risoh"?

The word "risoh" means "ideal" in Japanese.

### Question 2. What are edt1, edt2, cmb1?

Those are standard control ID macros defined in <dlgs.h>.

### Question 3. Why can't I add a control data to my dialog item?

Make the dialog box extended.

### Question 4. What is mcdx?

It's a special message compiler I made. See mcdx/MESSAGETABLEDX.md for details.

### Question 5. Why did I get garbled characters when compiling with Visual Studio?

The resource compiler of MSVC has a bug in treatment of UTF-8 resource files.

Use UTF-16 (but UTF-16 is not supported in GNU windres).

## HISTORY

- v.0.6 (2017.08.31)
    - First release.
- v.5.0.8 (2018.09.12)
    - Improve tool bar icons.
    - Fix the file types on extraction.
    - Write dagger to source file to help UTF-8 detection.
    - Fix the treeview icons.
    - Split the RT_DIALOG and RT_MENU resource templates in languages.
- v.5.0.9 (2018.09.27)
    - Improve resource.h output.
    - Improve treeview file icon.
    - Improve importing.
- v.5.1.0 (2018.10.08)
    - Improve "String Entry" dialogs (multiline).
    - Fix Ctrl+A behaviour.
    - Check file lock on saving a file.
    - Make resource IDs case sensitive.
    - Support encoding of resource items.
    - Fix the abnormal termination at "Languages" dialog.
- v.5.1.1 (2018.11.08)
    - Accept space in the caption text box.
    - Accept space in the language text box.
- v.5.1.2 (2018.12.08)
    - Accept space in the window class name text box.
    - Accept C string literal in the window class name text box.
    - Improve template system.
    - Enable manifest template.
    - Fix toolbar UI update.
    - Correctly display ID types of "List of Resource IDs".
    - Correctly sort the languages upon output.
- v.5.1.3 (2019.01.01)
    - Fix "List of Resource IDs".
- v.5.1.4 (2019.01.13)
    - Add English installer.
    - Add Italian installer.
    - Add Italian translation.
    - Add some language installer.
- v.5.1.5 (2019.01.27)
    - Don't use WS_EX_MDICHILD extended style.
    - Support ReactOS.
- v.5.1.6 (2019.02.24)
    - Improve Italian translation.
    - GUI adjustment.
    - Fix "Clone In New Language".
- v.5.1.7 (2019.03.20)
    - Add PBS_MARQUEE and PBS_SMOOTHREVERSE styles.
    - Fix the process of compilation error.
- v.5.1.8 (2019.05.14)
    - Add check of recompilation upon cloning.
    - Fix the selection after cloning.
    - Correctly fail upon compilation error of string table and message table.
- v.5.1.9 (2019.07.14)
    - Supported UTF-16 source input/output.
- v.5.2.0 (2019.07.26)
    - Correctly treat `DIALOG STYLE` values (`WS_CAPTION` is default value of `DIALOG STYLE`).
    - Fixed a bug that the application unexpectedly deletes the file when it opened a compressed EXE file without expanding.
- v.5.2.1 (2019.08.04)
    - "English (United States)" will be selected if you entered `"En"` for language name.
    - Add "Query Constant" feature.
    - Fix "Collapse All".
    - `WS_POPUPWINDOW | WS_BORDER` must be `WS_POPUPWINDOW | WS_CAPTION`.
    - `RT_FONT` support.
    - Improved "Add Resource" dialog.
- v.5.2.2 (2019.08.14)
    - Update Italian translation.
    - Support XML, XSLT, SCHEMA and REGISTRY resource types.
    - Improved interpretation when language mismatch of `RT_ICON`/`RT_CURSOR` and `RT_GROUP_ICON`/`RT_GROUP_CURSOR`.
    - Improved interpretation when language mismatch of `RT_DLGINIT` and `RT_DIALOG`.
- v.5.2.3 (2019.09.14)
    - Fix `AUTORADIOBUTTON` `STYLE`.
- v.5.2.4 (2019.09.15)
    - XP support.
- v.5.2.5 (2019.09.19)
    - Fixed a `WS_CHILDWINDOW` bug in dialog style listbox.
    - Changed the release filename (`RisohEditor-X.X.X.exe` and `RisohEditor-X.X.X.zip`).
    - Added `TRANSLATORS.txt`.
    - Made owner-drawn controls visible.
- v.5.2.6 (2019.09.23)
    - Improve Languages dialog.
    - Add Russian translation.
    - Show error message if the installed location has space characters.
    - Add `--use-temp-file` option in invoking `windres` to fix the `popen` problem.
- v.5.2.7 (2019.10.20)
    - Improved Languages dialog again.
    - Fix the positions of the dialog item marks.
- v.5.2.8 (2020.01.30)
    - Fix Russian translation.
    - Able to display undefined controls.
    - Added "Use BEGIN/END" option.
    - Fixed a bug that DLL could not be saved as another name.
- v.5.2.9 (2020.02.01)
    - XP support of 5.2.8 is forgotten. Now enabled.
    - Fixed processing of file saving.
    - Able to save EXE/DLL files without user-owned executable.
    - Fixed how to backup.
- v.5.3.0 (2020.02.06)
    - Added `ES_AUTOHSCROLL` to some textboxes.
    - Fixed the logical error upon overwriting file.
- v.5.3.1 (2020.02.23)
    - Fix and improve menu resource reading/displaying.
    - Improved `IDC_STATIC` handling.
    - Improved "List of Resource IDs" window.
- v.5.3.2 (2020.XX.YY)
    - Able to save with Ctrl+S without querying the location.

## Contact Us

katayama.hirofumi.mz@gmail.com
